Newsletters: add 205 (2022-06-22) (#789)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2022-06-22-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #205'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2022/06/22/
name: 2022-06-22-newsletter
slug: 2022-06-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a proposed option for Bitcoin Core that
would make it easier to enable transaction replacement even for
transactions that don't opt-in to BIP125, links to information about the
Hertzbleed sidechannel vulnerability, summarizes the conclusion of a

> discussion about time stamping system design, and examines an new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussion about time stamping system design, and examines a new
```

  RBF option and perhaps eventually enabling it by default.

- **Hertzbleed:** a recently [disclosed][hertzbleed] security
  vulnerability affecting many (perhaps all) popular laptop, desktop,
  and server CPU processors may allow attackers to discover private keys
  when those keys are being used to create signatures for Bitcoin
  transactions (or perform other similar operations).  The noteworthy
  aspect of this attack is that it may affect signature generation code
  that was specifically written to always use the same type and number
  of CPU operations in order to prevent leaking information to
  attackers.

  Exploiting the vulnerability would require an attacker to measure
  either the power consumption of a CPU chip or measure the duration
  of parts of the signing operation.  Ideally for an attacker, they
  would be able to take measurements while a user creates many
  signatures using the same private key.  As such, the vulnerability is
  more likely to affect frequently used hot wallets, such as those used
  by hosted services and LN routing nodes.  Mostly or entirely offline
  wallets that are used in secure environments would be much more

>   resistant to attacks.

Reviewer: Would I understand correctly that address reuse exacerbates this? Perhaps we could call that out specifically to add to the well-known reasons for why address reuse is a bad practice.

  stamp an unlimited number of documents, with each person who requests
  a timestamp being responsible for storing their time stamp proofs.
  This system also has the advantage of being simple both in concept and
  implementation.

  The EO system requires all full participants store the commitments to
  every document.  This can be much less efficient and adds complexity.
  The tradeoff is that it does allow participants to verify when a
  document was first published to the system.

  The discussion did not lead to any announced changes in any system or
  proposal, such as Open Timestamps or transaction sponsorship (the
  original topic of discussion, see [Newsletter #116][news116
  sponsorship]).  It did seem to surprise several discussion
  participants that they could each have different concepts of what
  "time stamping" implied.

- **New RIDDLE anti-sybil method:** Adam "Waxwing" Gibson
  [posted][gibson riddle post] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a
  [proposal][gibson riddle gist] for an [anti-sybil][sybil] mechanism
  that uses the Bitcoin UTXO set and which can provide reasonably good
  privacy.  A user can generate a list of UTXOs where one of the UTXOs

>   belongs to the user and the rest belong to other users.  The user then
>   creates a signature which third parties can verify came from an owner
>   of one of the UTXOs---but which the verifier can't determine which of
>   the listed UTXO owners created it.

Reviewer: Too many witches spoil the potion—that last sentence is a bit hard to parse. Perhaps:

```suggestion
  belongs to the user and the rest belong to other users.  The user then
  creates a signature which provably came from an owner
  of one of the listed UTXOs, but does not reveal which owner created it.
  ```

  service might only accept a signature over UTXOs that are 1 BTC in
  value and which have remained unspent for a year.

  Gibson proposes that membership proofs could come in two forms: a
  global proof and a local proofs.  Global proofs would be shared
  between verifiers so that, under ideal conditions, a user could only
  create one proof per UTXO in the global context.  For example, the
  user would only be able to sign up for one account for each year-old
  UTXO worth 1 BTC.

  Local contexts would be specific to a single verifier (or a group of
  associated verifiers, such as on a decentralized exchange).  For
  example, a user could use a UTXO to access APIs on service A and then
  reuse the same UTXO for service B.

  Additionally, high value UTXOs could be treated as multiple UTXOs of a
  lower value, so a 10 BTC UTXO could allow a user to sign up for 10
  different accounts at different services each requiring 1 BTC of
  capital in the global context.

  Although the RIDDLE protocol does provide privacy advantages over
  other anti-sybil mechanisms, Gibson does warn that information from
  use of the system can be combined with other available information to

>   potentially reduce the users privacy.  He writes, "there is no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  potentially reduce the user's privacy.  He writes, "there is no
```

- [Bitcoin Core GUI #602][] writes settings changed in the GUI to a file
  also loaded by the headless daemon (`bitcoind`) so the changed
  settings are used no matter how the user starts Bitcoin Core.

- [Eclair #2224][] adds support Short Channel Identifier (scid) aliases
  and the [zero-conf channel][topic zero-conf channels] type.  The scid
  aliases can improve privacy and also make it possible for nodes to
  easily refer to a channel before it has been sufficiently confirmed.
  Zero-conf channels allow two nodes to agree to use a channel for
  routing payments before it has been sufficiently confirmed, which can
  be secure under certain restraints.

- [HWI #611][] adds single-sig support for [bech32m addresses][topic
  bech32] with the BitBox02 hardware signing device.

{% include references.md %}
{% include linkers/issues.md v=2 issues="602,2224,611,25353,25373" %}
[lnd 0.15.0-beta.rc6]: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/releases/tag/v0.15.0-beta.rc6
[rbf discussion]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-June/020557.html
[hertzbleed]: https://www.hertzbleed.com/
[news116 sponsorship]: /en/newsletters/2020/09/23/#transaction-fee-sponsorship

> [poelstra timestamping]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-June/020569.htmla

Reviewer 2: Small typo in file suffix: *.html**a**
```suggestion
[poelstra timestamping]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-June/020569.html
```
